esnistuff/hrrtest.md, before:

# An ECH and HRR test setup

Since I'm figuring this out, I need notes... these are they.

To trigger HRR we need a client that claims to support the
usual set of groups (which is most of 'em), and for that
client to send no key_share that the server supports (so
we need a server with fewer than usual groups supported).

So, first we need a server, we can use the echsrv.sh 
script...

            $ cd $HOME/code/openssl/esnistuff
            $ ./echsvr.sh -vdTPR
            ...

In the above only the ``-R`` is really needed but:

    - -R is to trigger HRR by only supporting P-384 
    - -v is for valgrind
    - -d is for debug
    - -T is for trial decryption
    - -P is for server-side padding

## GREASEing

We'll start, as always, with GREASE.

            $ ./echcli.sh -dv -p 8443 -s localhost -H example.com -g
            ...
            ECH: only greasing, and got ECH in return
            $

The TLS h/s worked and valgrind is happy. 

Initially, the 2nd CH had a brand new GREASEy ECH. The spec says to re-tx the
same value though, apparently due to some 8446 restrictions that are taken too
seriously by some deployed code somewhere. (They barf if the 2nd CH changes
unexpectedly.) Added code to re-tx the same thing so all seems well. 
The background for this 
is [here](https://github.com/tlswg/draft-ietf-tls-esni/issues/358).

## Real ECH

If we run the usual client...

            $ ./echcli.sh -dv -p 8443 -s localhost -H foo.example.com -P d13.pem
            ... fail

            $ ./echcli.sh -dv -p 8443 -s localhost -H foo.example.com -P badkey.pem
            ... fails less bad

STATE:
- most but not all code coded up
- HRR accept calc now same on both sides
- client is sending 2nd CH
- 2nd CH seems not to be using correct group
  (probably swaperoo needs to tweak it)

TODO:
- server & client to figure where HRR accept lies inside HRR
  (currently assuming last ext)
- re-use HPKE context for 2nd CH
- testing 
- remove leaks

Commit message:

HRR apparently basically working but still needs more work to generalise

esnistuff/hrrtest.md, after:

# An ECH and HRR test setup

Since I'm figuring this out, I need notes... these are they.

To trigger HRR we need a client that claims to support the
usual set of groups (which is most of 'em), and for that
client to send no key_share that the server supports (so
we need a server with fewer than usual groups supported).

So, first we need a server, we can use the echsrv.sh 
script...

            $ cd $HOME/code/openssl/esnistuff
            $ ./echsvr.sh -vdTPR
            ...

In the above only the ``-R`` is really needed but:

    - -R is to trigger HRR by only supporting P-384 
    - -v is for valgrind
    - -d is for debug
    - -T is for trial decryption
    - -P is for server-side padding

## GREASEing

We'll start, as always, with GREASE.

            $ ./echcli.sh -dv -p 8443 -s localhost -H example.com -g
            ...
            ECH: only greasing, and got ECH in return
            $

The TLS h/s worked and valgrind is happy. 

Initially, the 2nd CH had a brand new GREASEy ECH. The spec says to re-tx the
same value though, apparently due to some 8446 restrictions that are taken too
seriously by some deployed code somewhere. (They barf if the 2nd CH changes
unexpectedly.) Added code to re-tx the same thing so all seems well. 
The background for this 
is [here](https://github.com/tlswg/draft-ietf-tls-esni/issues/358).

## Real ECH

If we run the usual client...

            $ ./echcli.sh -dv -p 8443 -s localhost -H foo.example.com -P d13.pem
            ... fail

            $ ./echcli.sh -dv -p 8443 -s localhost -H foo.example.com -P badkey.pem
            ... currently working

STATE:
- both sides appear to work

TODO:
- check transcript really as expected
- server & client to figure where HRR accept lies inside HRR
  (currently assuming last ext)
- re-use HPKE context for 2nd CH
- testing
